Although this is a linux advantages file let's talk about the disadvantages for linux first
the main disavantages of changing to linux: 

- Absence of perticular software in linux:
so the entire microsoft office suite and the adobe suite are unavailable on linux. You can
use the web versions of mircosoft office or use libra or open office but that's not the same
and that might be a deal breaker.

- A learning curve and time to understand the system
It's going to take time for you to learn how to use this operating system, you need to give it
time before it can start benefitting you. And you'll have to relearn things in the OS which will
affect how much time you take to do basic tasks. A simple example for this is:
When I used to scan documents in windows it would take me about 5mins each time, going through all
the clicking and graphical user interface. The first time i scanned a doucment in linux it took me about
30mins. That's because it takes effort to setup something in linux and you'll spend time just setting it up
the way you want and making sure everything works. However... now... for me to scan a document it takes me
less than a minute! I know that all I need to do is run this one command: $hp-scan mode=color
I can set everything i want from there! AND if I want to scan 20 documents one after the other then in windows
you'd have to either set up an ahk script or you'd have to manually click so many buttons. but in linux... all i
would do is: $ for i in {1..20}; do; hp-scan mode=color; done; and that would do that...

Do note these 2 key disavantages of changing to linux. A very import point I'd like to point out is that these two are
disadvantages of CHANGING to linux and not inheriently of linux. It's the fact that you are not used to it so and it
invloves a learning curve and you've been using windows for years.

That being said let's talk about why linux increases your effeciency especially if you aren't scared of computers and
learning new and possibly different things. Knowing how to code really helps when you start using linux.

Advantages of Linux:

- The Terminal: The terminal of linux or the unix terminal. Why this is an advantage even through you have things like
windows power shell and command prompt is the fact that linux encourages you to use the terminal and you can do almost
anything you want in the terminal! YOU have web browser that work in linux! You have photo editors in the terminal...
And its easy to take the output of one and pipe it into another. Its easy to script things since its all commands and the
output is standardized. I can't explain how awesome the terminal is awesome untill you've used it.

- Automation: In windows you have this amazing program called autohotkey (ahk) which is such an amazing tool to automate
almost anything that you want on the computer. But in linux... you don't have to learn a different language and something
nearly as complicated as ahk. Ahk is not standardized so its harder to learn the language. Linux due to all the command
line applications and bash its so easy to write a script and since everything is so open and you can use it the way you
want to use it... Scriting is inherient in the process.

- Workspaces: This is one of the main reasons that linux makes you very effecient. If you set it up in a way that you want
you can get so much out of workspaces. Windows does have workspaces but its just introduced and its not as controlable as
in linux and tiling also is something new in windows and so its gonna take time before it matures into something that's
actually good.

- Control: This is honeslty the reason that linux is so attractive to everyone that comes here and this is the reason that
most people who say linux is not good. Let me explain why I say this. IF you are the kind of person that is not afraid to
learn something new and make it your own and make it exactly what you want. But this is the problem for people who aren't
super into computer and aren't into putting in effort to understand something or is just looking for something to get it
done with and you don't want to have to spend anytime and its a one time thing... linux is not good for you... but if you
use your computer more often than not then linux is almost guaranteed to make you more efficiency. 

- Learning: The things you learn about your computer just trying to set linux up and just exploring is a lot more than what
you learn when you use windows. When you use linux you're more exposed to how things work since the operating system isn't
trying to hid all that from you in all the forms. There are versions of linux which are super seemless like windows but
if you are trying to learn things then linux certainly makes it easier and provides more exposure.
You can install vanilla arch and you'll understand all the things about mount points languages booting system and whatnot
you can't do that with windows in the same way.

- Easy Package manager: Its in the name, installing software on linux is a lot safer and a lot easier than windows. Windows
has 3rd party package managers but all of them require setup and aren't as flawless.
