1. Why do you wish to study in canada in the program for which you have
been accepted ?

The education system in canada is based more on practical application and
learning by doing rather than emphasizing theory. The canadian educational
degree in Computer Science is valid internationally which opens a lot of 
doors when i wish to persure my post graduate education. The diversity in
the multicultural socienty is _____. The resources and the infrastructure
of the university is exceptional. The environment and the co-op programs
are condusive for personal and professional growth.
- The co-op programs exposes me to the real world application.

2. What is your overall educational goal ?

I wish to continue my studies after my graduation in backend development
so that I master my field of study. I have a keep passion for algorithms
and their designs in computer science, the process of thinking of simple
solution to complex problems excites me. I plan to be a programmer working
for large software companies like google or amazon so that i can be be
exposed the the front tier of technology. I can achieve my goal of working
at those companies by studying among the best.

3. Why are you not pursuing a similar program in you country or residence
or citizenship ?

The education system of canada is more application centric whereas in
India the education system is more focused on theory. The degree that
is provided in India is not valid Internationally. For studies in kuwait,
the options provided in kuwait are limited and do not have courses that i
wish to persue.

4. What research have you done into studies in your country of residence or citizenship ?

The Indian universities, although reputable, often force you to memorise
concepts rather than having to understand them. From what i have learned 
from my friends studying in my country they tell me that they have long
lecures where the teacher does not support very inquisitive students.
Kuwait on the other hand does not entertain forign students in their
universities.

5. How will this program ennhance your employment oppotunities in your
country?

As a developer in India with a degree from canada with co-op experience
you are highly valuable to the employers who want workers who can get
things done. Most indian students, once they have completed their
education, do not have any real world experience and hence it takes a
while for them to get used to the work flow, this will no be the case if
i am to study in canada.

6. what ties do you have to your country of residence or of cityzenship ?

My parents live in kuwait and the rest of my family,my grandparents,
reside in India.

7. reasons for studying in canada ? what is your parents or guardians
immagration status in their country of residence ?

I wish to persue my studies in canada since I see a lot of oppurtinities
for me to grow and learn the way i prefer to do so.My parents reside in 
kuwait with a valid work permit and residency.
